---
title: "Encrypted file containers using LUKS"
date: 2014-07-05
categories: linux security encryption
---

## Intro / Reasoning

While I do use full partition encryption using
LVM+LUKS, I have a few files on Dropbox that 
I want to be encrypted there as well. So, 
I have chosen to use file containers.

And now that TrueCrypt is no longer trusted,
and I no longer use any of the files I had 
put in TrueCrypt containers under Windows, 
I have switched to using just `cryptsetup`.

This topic has been covered in a lot of
places by a lot of people, but it has been
simplified across the years. And, I'm using
the steps out of a couple articles, which 
makes it annoying every time I try to 
remember and then find the steps. So, I'm 
posting them here, because I think I can 
remember my own site!

*(I'm adapting [this comment](http://www.linux.org/threads/encrypted-containers-without-truecrypt.4478/#post-17753) to
[this article](http://www.linux.org/threads/encrypted-containers-without-truecrypt.4478/), adding LUKS keys as shown on the 
[Arch wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dm-crypt/Device_Encryption#Key_management), which provides
more explaination and reasoning than I do
here.)*

## Preparation / Creating the container

Here we are going to create the container,
generate and add a random LUKS key, put a
file system on it and set up a directory
to mount it to.

Almost all of these commands require root privileges,
so take whatever means you need to do that
first; I'm using
[CrunchBang](http://crunchbang.org), a port
of Ubuntu.

	# Simplify pathing; change to your working directory
	cd ~/Dropbox

	# switch to super-user
	sudo su

	# install cryptsetup if needed
	apt-get install cryptsetup

	# create the container; I'm making
	# a 256M container:
	dd if=/dev/urandom of=test.bin bs=1M count=256M

	# set it up for luks; answer caps YES
	cryptsetup luksFormat test.bin
	# it will prompt you twice for a password

	# now add an extra key so you don't
	# have to type the password every
	# time you want to use the container
	# - add the directory if needed
	mkdir -p /etc/keys
	# - make the key w/ 2K of random text
	dd if=/dev/urandom of=/etc/keys/test.key bs=512 count=4
	# - change the key so only root can read
	chmod 400 /etc/keys/test.key
	# - assign the key to the next slot for test.bin
	cryptsetup luksAddKey test.bin /etc/keys/test.key

	# open the container using our key; maps it to /dev/mapper/test
	cryptsetup luksOpen test.bin test -d /etc/keys/test.key
	

	# create a file system in it (so we can actually use it)
	mkfs.ext2 /dev/mapper/test


	# create a directory to mount to,
	# and give yourself ownership
	mkdir /mnt/test
	mount /dev/mapper/test /mnt/test
	chown damon:damon /mnt/test


	# we can close it for now
	umount /mnt/test
	cryptsetup luksClose test

	# and exit the super user
	exit


## Subsequently using the container

Now, we have created the file container,
and it's ready to go for future use. `cryptsetup`
still requires root permissions, but here
we only have a couple commands so I'll sudo
instead. In the future you just:

	# 1. open the container
	cd ~/Dropbox
	sudo cryptsetup luksOpen test.bin test -d /etc/keys/test.key
	
	# 2. mount it
	sudo mount /dev/mapper/test /mnt/test
	
	# 3. make our changes
	cd /mnt/test
	touch urFace
	rm urFace # take his face... off
		
	# 4. unmount it
	cd
	sudo umount /mnt/test
	
	# 5. close the container
	sudo cryptsetup luksClose test



And that's it.
