---
layout:	post
title: 	"Bodacious Cases"
date: 	2015-05-09
categories: products, crowd-funding, woman-owned business, technology
---

While I don't work for the company and am not a spokesman for them, I would like to share a few quick thoughts about the Bodacious Cases company.

**This is a women-owned company that has committed to having 100% manufacturing in the United States!**

As you can imagine, their journey hasn't been without it's challenges. When I first heard of the company, Arianna was presenting at One Million Cups in Springfield. She was showing off the cases, as well as sharing the latest difficulty she was facing while maintaining a 100% US made plastics product. 

At that point, they already had products in the marketplace for iPhones 4 & 5. They also had plans for new cases, but learned that the mold manufacturer they had been using was going out of business.

Fast forward six months and they now have designed their cases for the iPhone 6 and Samsung Galaxy s5 & s6 and are ready to go to market. So now they are in their funding phase and have chosen to go with crowd-funding.

The Bodacious Cases are at the same price point as the OtterBox cases and offer similar features. But in addition to being 100% US made, they also offer a few extra features such as an ID / Credit Card storage slot and custom styles. The subtle Bodacious icon on the back of the case is a nice touch too. It's not too loud, but if you need a pick-me-up that day, just look at the back of your case to find Bo winking at you!

Please take a moment to check out [their site][1]. Then, head over to support them in their [crowd-funding campain][2]. They obviously have options for individuals, but they also have some great deals for resellers.

[1]: http://bodaciouscases.com/
[2]: https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/cases-for-iphone-4-5-6-samsung-galaxy-s5-s6

<iframe src="https://www.indiegogo.com/project/cases-for-iphone-4-5-6-samsung-galaxy-s5-s6/embedded" width="222px" height="445px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
